I'm Daniel Bruhl Anton the Caliph I with
the weekly fire situation report for
Tuesday may 29th 2012 despite a rainy
March and even some recent rain this
past week his winters overall rainfall
was well below average according to the
state's final snow survey done am a
first the statewide snowpack water
content was only forty percent of normal
as a result of the dry winter the number
of wildfires that Cal Fire's responded
to is twice that of last year from
January first through the last week of
May cal fire crews have responded to
over thirteen hundred and seventy-five
wildfires nearly two times the number in
2011 when there were approximately seven
hundred fires this year's number of
wildfires is also well above the
five-year average over the Memorial Day
weekend california's took advantage of
the unofficial kickoff to summer by rec
rating outdoors and at the same time as
most people were out camping or having
family barbecues our crews are busy
across the state with a number of new
wildfires take a look at our statewide
fire map you can see that there were
four fires over this past weekend
started in Northern California the
Robinson fire scorched 68 acres just
west of Cottonwood in Shasta County
moving on down south the banner fire
just east of Julian in San Diego County
sparked by equipment use on Thursday
afternoon due to the gusty winds the
fire made a number of runs even forced
the evacuations of about a hundred homes
in shelter Valley firefighters were able
to stop the fire and successfully keep
it away from those homes that fire
charges over 5300 acres before being
contained two fires kept firefighters
busy in Riverside County on Friday the
40 acre fire burned near Lake Elsinore
while a 256 acre fire with sparks Sunday
afternoon just west of lake mathews
while those fires were quickly contained
moving over to our weather headlines for
the week after a few relatively cooler
days this past weekend we can expect a
gradual return to a warm and drying
trend throughout most of the state this
will lead to an increased fire danger as
the grass and the brush all dry out even
more increasing the potential for fire
danger through the weekend now as we
move into June conditions are expected
continued to drop even more lead into an
increased fire danger cAL FIRE has
already begun transitioning in the fire
season by hiring seasonal firefighters
and then open up many of the
department's remote seasonal fire
stations with conditions already being
so dry home owners are urged to ensure
they have a hundred feet a defensible
space around their homes to learn more
on how to prepare for your home for fire
season visit ready for wildfire org
that's the latest on the fire situation
in California I'm getting reliable fire
safety
you